# Cancer survival rate prediction:  
Each patient has a survival rate between 0 and 1 (i.e., continuous), which shows how likely they will survive, with 1 being the likeliest. In this part, we will make a prediction of a patient's survival rate. There are three types of genomic data that can be used: DNA methylation data, gene expression data, and miRNA expression data. Participants can use either one of them or combination of them to make the predictive model by training a multimodal deep belief network (MDBN). Below codes are not DBN implementation but show necessary feature engineering needed for MLP, DBN or any other deep learning based model. 
	
- **SurvivalPrediction_DNAMet_with_GBTandPCA.scala**: This is a simplementation of cancer survival prediction using DNA Methylation data. It is based on gradient boosted trees wit dimensonality reduction using PCA algorithm. It takes 2 inputs: i) **input_met_sur.csv** is the data and ii) **label_sur.csv** is the corresponding label. There labels are continuous value between 0 and 1.0 to be predicted -i.e. **regression problem**.  
- **SurvivalPrediction_GE_with_GBTandPCA.scala**:This is a simplementation of cancer survival prediction using Gene Expression data. It is based on gradient boosted trees wit dimensonality reduction using PCA algorithm. It takes 2 inputs: i) **input_gen_sur.csv** is the data and ii) **label_sur.csv** is the corresponding label. There labels are continuous value between 0 and 1.0 to be predicted -i.e. **regression problem**.  
- **SurvivalPrediction_miRNA_with_GBTandPCA.scala**: This is a simplementation of cancer survival prediction using miRNA expression data. It is based on gradient boosted trees wit dimensonality reduction using PCA algorithm. It takes 2 inputs: i) **input_mir_sur.csv** is the data and ii) **label_sur.csv** is the corresponding label. There labels are continuous value between 0 and 1.0 to be predicted -i.e. **regression problem**.  
  
Additionally, the - **SurvivalPredictionRF.scala** is the Random Forest implementation of survival rate prediction. It does necessary feature engineering, normalization,and modelling. Every Scala script does necessary feature engineering, modelling and simple evaluation. Finally, **MSE**, **RMSE**, **R2** and **MAE**. It is to be noted, that none of the hyperparametrs are tuned. You can use these simple implementation and tune your training as well as hyperparametrs.
